Pd-30 SCALE 22.12 system boot environment UI changes (#1728)
truenas/documentation: content/SCALE/SCALETutorials/SystemSettings/ManageBootEnvironSCALE.md

{{< /expand >}}

### Deleting a Boot Environment
Deleting a boot environment removes it from the **System Settings > Boot** screen and from the boot menu.
{{< expand "Click Here for More Information" "v" >}}
Click the <span class="material-icons">more_vert</span> for a boot environment, and then select **Delete** to open the **Delete** dialog.
Select **Confirm** and then click **Delete**.

![DeleteBootEnvironmentSCALE](/images/SCALE/22.12/DeleteBootEnvironmentSCALE.png "Delete Boot Environment") 

> You cannot delete the default and any active entries. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You cannot delete the default or any active entries. 
```

## Changing the Scrub Interval
The **Stats/Settings** option displays current system statistics and provides the option to change the scrub interval, or how often the system runs a data integrity check on the operating system device.
{{< expand "Click Here for More Information" "v" >}}
Go to **System Settings > Boot** screen and click **Stats/Settings**. 
The **Stats/Settings** window displays statistics for the operating system device: **Boot pool Condition** as **ONLINE** or **OFFLINE**, **Size** in GiB and the space in use in **Used**, and **Last Scrub Run** with the date and time of the scrub. 
By default, the operating system device is scrubbed every 7 days.

![BootPoolStatsSettingsSCALE](/images/SCALE/22.12/BootPoolStatsSettingsSCALE.png "Boot Environment Stats/Settings")

To change the default scrub interval, input a different number in **Scrub interval (in days)** and click **Update Interval**.
{{< /expand >}}

## Checking Boot Pool Status
You an attach or replace the boot environment.
{{< expand "Click Here for More Information" "v" >}}

> From the **System Settings > Boot** screen, click **Boot Pool Status** button to open the **Boot Pool Status** screen. This screen shows current operating system device (boot pool), the path for the pool, and the read, write, or checksum errors for the device. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the **System Settings > Boot** screen, click the **Boot Pool Status** button to open the **Boot Pool Status** screen. This screen shows the current operating system device (boot pool), the path for the pool, and the read, write, or checksum errors for the device. 
```

![BootPoolStatusListingSCALE](/images/SCALE/22.12/BootPoolStatusListingSCALE.png "Boot Pool Status")

Click the <span class="material-icons">more_vert</span> to open the **Actions** options. 

![BootPoolStatusAttachDiskSCALE](/images/SCALE/22.12/BootPoolStatusAttachDiskSCALE.png "Boot Pool Status") 

Click **Attach**, then select a device from the **Member Disk** dropdown. 

Select **Use all disk space** to use the entire capacity of the new device.

Click **Save**.

If you want to replace the device, click the <span class="material-icons">more_vert</span> to open the **Actions** options. Click **Replace**, select the device from the **Member Disk** dropdown, and then click **Save**. 

![BootPoolStatusReplaceDiskSCALE](/images/SCALE/22.12/BootPoolStatusReplaceDiskSCALE.png "Boot Pool Status") 

{{< /expand >}}

## Scrubbing a Boot Pool
You can perform a manual data integrity check (scrub) of the operating system device at any time.
{{< expand "Click Here for More Information" "v" >}}

> From the **System Settings > Boot** screen and click **Scrub Boot Pool** to open the **Scrub** dialog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the **System Settings > Boot** screen, click **Scrub Boot Pool** to open the **Scrub** dialog.
```
